 l_spanish:

 podintroductions.1.t:0 "Rosas Negras"
 podintroductions.1.desc:0 "Mientras que la Francia mortal se tambalea bajo el caos interno de la cruzada contra los albigenses, a la vampírica no le va mejor. Alexander, un Ventrue de 4ª generación, fue príncipe de París y de Francia hasta hace menos de dos años. Derrocado por un golpe de estado liderado por el Toreador Salianna, y su propio chiquillo, Godofredo del Temple. La Reina Toreador ha asumido el control del país e intenta consolidar su posición, enfrentándose a la oposición de sus propios compañeros de clan, las otras reinas de Francia. Por otro lado, Godofredo ha tomado como premio la propia París, pero podría, con el tiempo, optar por la corona que le pertenece por derecho de sangre. Al sur, Esclarmonde de Toulouse utiliza el levantamiento cátaro para sus propios objetivos, ya que podría enfrentarse la furia del norte de Francia mas pronto que tarde. ¿Encontrará el país un gobernante mejor que Alexander? ¿O será barrido por el caos y la destrucción?"
 podintroductions.1.a:0 "France would fare better under my rule…"
 podintroductions.2.t:0 "The bored God-King of England"
 podintroductions.2.desc:0 "Vampiric history of Britannia is closely linked to the Ventrue Mithras. Persian, than Roman, god, this 4th generation almost had the whole of Europe following his cult before Christianity drove him out. Retreating with his zealots in the land of the Brits, he quickly gathered power… and grew bored of the pettiness of the place. Failing regularly into [torpor|E], the Norman invasion destroyed his seat of power and forced him to awoken to restore order. 150 years later, Mithras couldn’t care less about England again, and many of his subjects, like Hugh of Cornwall or Robin Leeland, have obtained de facto independence and plot his demise. Worse, Wales and Scotland are still upholding ancient cells of Druidic and Nordic Kindred. None can really say if Mithras will once again crush this new opposition or just let it fester under his nose until it’s too late."
 podintroductions.2.a:0 "All hail the God-King… for now."
 podintroductions.3.t:0 "Land of Kings and Warlocks"
 podintroductions.3.desc:0 "The undisputed heart of [Clan|E] Ventrue, Germany is firmly in the hands of Hardestadt. Still, even his rule isn’t unchallenged, by pretenders like Julia Antasia of Western Germany or the elusive Ilse Reinegger of Bavaria. To the south, the usurpers of [Clan|E] Tremere have a precarious position, with the vicious Tzimisce of Eastern Europe closing fast on their strongholds. Their defensive accord with the mighty Ventrue is perhaps their only lifeline. Close by lies Alexander of Paris, the exiled prince of France, a powerful Vampire by his own right, but alone politically. Hardestadt must act quickly, quelling the ambitions of his childe Jurgen, destroying Julia's and Ilse's power bases and securing his eastern front with or without Tremere’s help. Germany will be the crown jewel of [Clan|E] Ventrue, or burn trying."
 podintroductions.3.a:0 "Rome is a fading memory, the future is here."
 podintroductions.4.t:0 "Shadow Reconquista"
 podintroductions.4.desc:0 "Iberia is the traditional center of power of [Clan|E] Lasombra but the mortal Reconquista has plunged the Magisters into a bitter civil war. To the north, Sylvester de Ruiz leads the official, Christian, [Clan|E] Lasombra and has the clear ambition of ruling all of Iberia. He must take notice of his ambitious vassals though, the like of Ambrosio Luis Moncada or Lucita of Aragon. To the south, after decades of infighting, the Muslim Lasombra –who call themselves [ashirra|E]- have found in Badr of Andalusia a worthy and proven sultan. Elsewhere, new and old princes, from regal Ventrue to feral Gangrel, take notice of the weakness of the Magisters and wait for the right moment to strike. This Reconquista could be the last breath of the Lasombra dominance of Iberia."
 podintroductions.4.a:0 "Iberia will be whole again, just give me time."
 podintroductions.5.t:0 "Ragnarok"
 podintroductions.5.desc:0 "Long gone from the mortals minds, the Norse faith still exists for Vampires of Scandinavia. Its proponents, the fierce [einherjar|E], cling to their beliefs… but hope is fading fast. The All-High Werter and the leader of the Valkyries, Ulfsdottir, have retreated into depression and near [torpor|E]. Some continue the fight though, like Brunhilde and Valborg ‘Crooked-Eye’, trying to destroy the invading Christian Vampires, led by Hardestadt’s get. One glimmer of optimism for the [einherjar|E] is that the newcomers are hardly an united bunch, squabbling among themselves, most notably in Denmark which is divided between three pretenders. In the northern wastes, a band of callous furores calling themselves the Bar Sinister have staked a dubious claim on the barren land. Be they new allies or foes, the last battle of the Norse is drawing near, and the Cross seems like the clear favorite once again..."
 podintroductions.5.a:0 "Scandinavia will never be the same."
 podintroductions.6.t:0 "Requiem for an Empire"
 podintroductions.6.desc:0 "If mortal medieval Italy is a divided state, then Italy by Night is a powder keg. Powerful old Vampires scramble for the most populous cities of Europe. To the north, Ventrue ‘cardinal’ Fabrizio Ulfila seats in Milan, a strong grasp on the Italian Church at his disposal. In Venezia, the Giovanni scions of [Clan|E] Cappadocian are masters of a sea spanning trade empire, time will tell if their focus is on Italy proper or in the East, like their parent [Clan|E]. In Sicily, the capital of [Clan|E] Lasombra is guarded by the faithful Montano, but overextension and the civil war in Spain have left the Sea of Shadows vulnerable. Finally, all eyes are on Rome, where Titus Venturus Camille has recently awoken. The Eternal Consul was the mastermind behind Rome’s empire and Carthage’s destruction and could usher a new age for Ventrue leadership. As other petty leaders and immortals kings rise elsewhere in Italy, the War of Princes has never been more dangerous than here."
 podintroductions.6.a:0 "All roads lead to Rome."
 podintroductions.7.t:0 "Against the Wall"
 podintroductions.7.desc:0 "The Crusader States stand precariously on the Levant, and an even more precarious Vampire state has risen in their midst. The Diet of Olives is a pact between the princes of various cities of the area, headed by a survivor, Qawiyya el-Ghaduba. The “Lioness” is a Salubri, a [Clan|E] almost extinct in Western Europe since the death of their founder, Saulot, at the hands of the newly risen Tremere [Clan|E]. Most members of the weakened [Clan|E] have gone into hiding, but Qawiyya intends to make a stand. Her precarious alliance is already in danger though, as mighty Damascus is falling into a literal pit of madness. Darshuf, the old Toreador sultan has sold his soul to untold forces, with only his childe and a lone Assamite warrior standing on the way of a catastrophe. Will the Diet be the last hurrah of a dying [Clan|E] or the hope of a brighter future?"
 podintroductions.7.a:0 "Jerusalem is the city of miracles, after all…"
 podintroductions.8.t:0 "Behind the Veil"
 podintroductions.8.desc:0 "Arabia is the seat of the [ashirra|E] movement, Muslim vampires united beyond clans by their common faith. Their position on the peninsula is strong, but the loss of Jerusalem to the crusaders and of Egypt to the Serpents has cut them from their Maghrebi and Andalusian brothers. Even worse, Mesopotamia has fallen to the infernalists Baali once more, lead by Azaneal of the Nergalite branch. His goal is to take the great cities of the region, Damascus, Baghdad and Tyr, to have the population he requires to sacrifice for his unholy master’s return. Ironically, his strongest opponent is Tanit of Tyr, another Baali, this one of the Molochim branch. This rivalry has plunged the resurgent Baali into civil war and gives hope to the Muslim faithful that they can be stopped. If not… then, the entire world could be at stake."
 podintroductions.8.a:0 "The cradle of civilization could be its deathbed too."
 podintroductions.9.t:0 "Cloak and Scimitar"
 podintroductions.9.desc:0 "Persia is the seat of the Assamite [Clan|E], a mysterious group for outsiders. Ruled by the newly crowned and very contested Eldest, Nakurtum, their facade of unity is showing cracks as various factions make their power plays. Thetmes of the Web of Knives wants the [Clan|E] to become a fanatic cult of assassins prepared to serve as an army for the return of his black master. Al Ashrad of the Sorcerers is walking a path of moderation, viewing the Assamites as judges and diplomats. Finally, Jamal of the Warriors is a devout Muslim, and would welcome a rapprochement with the [ashirra|E] Caliphate of Medina. This political unrest has helped the growth of another group in the region, the Lost Tribe of Dastur Anosh, an heretic venerating the Second Generation of vampires. Crippled by divisions and inefficiency, will the Assamite [Clan|E] find a new common purpose or implodes into civil war?"
 podintroductions.9.a:0 "I will unite Persia, by diplomacy or else."
 podintroductions.11.t:0 "The Eternal War"
 podintroductions.11.desc:0 "Since the dawn of time, India has been the theater of a war between [Clan|E] Ravnos and the asuratizayya, or Wan Kuei, a mysterious group of Asian 'Vampires'. There has been no victors and both combatants are at their breaking point, with various factions plotting to overthrow the current leadership. In the West, Chandraputra is marshaling the Ravnos for one more battle. While in the East, Dyanang leads the Dragons towards yet another charge. Other powers, from the Daena to Kartarirya of the Tzimisce, look hungrily for opportunities in the constant storm. Will a winner finally emerges?"
 podintroductions.11.a:0 "I am, obviously, the only hope for peace in India."
 podintroductions.12.t:0 "Still Falling"
 podintroductions.12.desc:0 "Although it has been burnt centuries ago, the loss of Carthage is still felt in the Maghreb. The area has since been carved between various [ashirra|E] sultans, but none of them has really managed to consolidate the region. The two best poised to do so are Sophoniba, the very old leader of Tunis who still remembers the loss of her city alongside Carthage, and Zamra Matoub of Algiers, a young and ambitious Lasombra. The Setites also have a foothold here, as do [Clan|E] Tremere. With this divided patchwork or powers, and rich history, the Maghreb is a tantalizing prize for any adventurous prince or sultan."
 podintroductions.12.a:0 "We need to move on from Carthage."
 podintroductions.13.t:0 "In the Pyramid's Shadow"
 podintroductions.13.desc:0 "Egypt has endured many foreign conquerors, and its native undead are nothing if not patient and resilient. The real power here lies in Gizeh, with the heart of [Clan|E] Setite. The [Clan|E] of freedom –or corruption depending on who you ask- is preparing its forces to profit from the vacuum of power created by the crusades. Their first target will undoubtedly be Cairo. Led by the powerful 5th generation Ventrue Antonius, the city won’t fall easily though and could thwart the Serpents if open war was declared. Everyone is sure that the Followers of Set will make their first move soon, but nobody can say when, and if, they will be stopped when they do…"
 podintroductions.13.a:0 "Egypt is as immortal as we are."
 podintroductions.14.t:0 "Land of Duality"
 podintroductions.14.desc:0 "Africa's native Vampires are the Laibon, a loose association of multiple bloodlines and self created bloodsuckers. They hold most of the true power in the continent but must contend with the many adventurers or petty warlords looking for fame and fortune in their lands. Even worse, Africa is also home to some truly ancient creatures, still there from the time where it was the cradle of humanity. With various new roads opening with the Muslim, and [ashirra|E], world, it remains to be seen if the Laibon will be able to adapt and prosper in the changing times."
 podintroductions.14.a:0 "Opportunities and dangers aplenty."
 podintroductions.15.t:0 "In the Skies"
 podintroductions.15.desc:0 "To outsiders, Tibet is home to very strange Vampires... if they can be called Vampires at all! The so called White Exiles are part of the Wan Kuei, the Hungry Ghosts of China, and are firmly established in the east. In the west though, even stranger things dwell from demon worshiping abominations to illuminated followers of a dead Egyptian god. Far away from any true center of undead power, Tibet is very much a sideshow to most Vampires. But mysteries can hold rewards to those who seek deep enough..."
 podintroductions.15.a:0 "Tibet is very much its own world."
 podintroductions.16.t:0 "Thunder from the East"
 podintroductions.16.desc:0 "The steppes aren’t a land for Vampires. Few cities to hide, few nations to manipulate and bend to their will. But, from the east comes a new breed of Vampires, one that is at home on the unending plains and with the nomadic Mongol people. These Anda, a Gangrel offshoot, are proud warriors and follow the massively expanding Mongol Empire with its conquests. Conflict with the already present Gangrel of the west seems inevitable and, even further, tensions with the European [cainites|E] are to be expected when these newcomers arrive. Change is a rare thing to come by with Vampires, but when it comes with a thunderous horde of horse archers, change could be the last thing many of them experience…"
 podintroductions.16.a:0 "Change isn't always welcome…"
 podintroductions.17.t:0 "Ye who enter here…"
 podintroductions.17.desc:0 "Eastern Europe is the traditional land of the Tzimisce [Clan|E], but their hegemony has been recently contested by the rise of the Tremere, backed by German and Hungarian Ventrue. A recent war has been ended with a bitter peace treaty between Vladimir Rustovitch, voivode of voivodes, and Jurgen von Verden, Ventrue crusader. A buffer state, the Obertus Order, has been established, headed by the broker of peace Myka Vykos. Now, everyone lick their wounds, Rustovitch trying to assure his control of the [Clan|E] and the Hungarian Ventrue solving a succession crisis with the [torpor|E] of their leader, Bulscu. Finally, Etrius is leading the Usurpers in Tremere's stead, showing the facade of an unified pyramid against the fiends. Everyone knows that war is inevitable in this region until a Vampire stands powerful enough to crush his rivals once and for all. Who will it be?"
 podintroductions.17.a:0 "A land to be tamed."
 podintroductions.18.t:0 "Fading Dream"
 podintroductions.18.desc:0 "The ashes of Constantinople are still hot and, yet, vultures are already circling over its corpse. Michael’s Dream, a vampiric utopia never seen since Carthage, has fallen with its creator, and a number of warlords and remnants of the broken Empire are trying to survive. The most important of them is Alfonzo, one of the instigators of the 4th Crusade, now holding Constantinople. The ambitious Lasombra still bow to the [Clan|E] leaders in Sicily, but for how long? Further west, Natalya Svyatoslav of the Brujah is one of the last true believers of the Dream still active, hoping to claim the mantle of the ‘Archangel’ Michael for herself. Anna Comnena hasn't such lofty ambitions, using Nikaea to finally get the Empire that should have been hers even during her breathing days. As many others aspiring princes build domains in the ashes of the old, Constantinople could be reborn anew… or dead for good."
 podintroductions.18.a:0 "Has Michael foreseen this chaos?"                                       
 podintroductions.19.t:0 "Grandmother, grandmother..."
 podintroductions.19.desc:0 "As far as anyone can remember, Russia is home to one of the most powerful kindred in existence, Baba Yaga. This 4th generation Nosferatu, rumored to be the true progenitor of the [Clan|E], is very much part of the land, and uses it to defend herself against her vengeful [Sire|E]. Luckily for all in the area, the witch is in [torpor|E]. But the influence of her Shadow Curtain is still felt, nurtured by her loyal second in command, Viktor. With such conditions, there are only three types of Vampires in Russia : the vassals of the Grandmother, the brave, and the soon to be dead. The latter two categories oftentimes overlapping each other..."
 podintroductions.19.a:0 "Beware the little girls..."                                       
 podintroductions.20.t:0 "New Fate for the Old Land"
 podintroductions.20.desc:0 "Traditionally a frontier of the Tzimisce Voivodate home to the more... eccentric fiends, Poland is coming into its own, separate, entity. The crumbling authority of the Voivodes, and their utter anachronism, has allowed a new generation of Vampires to take hold and prosper. First among them is Yitzhak ben Avraham, a devout Brujah, gathering followers around Krakow to expel the bygone prince, Razkoljna. This could be the first step towards a Poland free of Tzimisce's influence. But greater challenges await, most notably ousting the utter abomination that is Hedeon Yaroslavich, a Tzimisce even considered extreme by his own peers..."
 podintroductions.20.a:0 "I must heed this wind of change or be crushed by it." 
 podintroductions.21.t:0 "Land of the Free"
 podintroductions.21.desc:0 "Far from the crushing grip of tyrants in Western Europe, the Baltic area is home to two political constructs of a new type for Vampires. In Lithuania, Qarakh of the Gangrel has unified a wide band of free spirited pagans into what he intends to be the stopping point of Christianism, and Ventrue, expansion into the east. Further north, Karl the Blue is leading an [einherjar|E] Free State, perhaps the last of its kind as Scandinavia is falling to Hardestadt's minions. Both of these experiments are in great peril, internal and external, and mostly rely on the sheer charisma of their leaders. Even their bravery and conviction could prove futile against the coming Ventrue onslaught..."
 podintroductions.21.a:0 "Los últimos remanentes de una era moribunda no desaparecerán fácilmente." 
 podintroductions.2001.t:0 "Bienvenido a Princes of Darkness"
 podintroductions.2001.t_ghouls:0 "Bienvenidos a Servants of Darkness" 
 podintroductions.2001.t_kueijin:0 "Bienvenido a Ancestors of Darkness" 
 podintroductions.2001.desc:0 "Lo primero, ¡gracias por jugar el mod! \n[princes_of_darkness|E] ies una revisión del juego base, con el objetivo de dar vida a [world_of_darkness|E] en Crusader Kings 3. Como tal, tiene muchos conceptos de juego modificados y utiliza el amplio lore de su mundo para proponer una experiencia diferente."
 podintroductions.2001.a:0 "Let's talk about the main Vampire mechanics..." 
 podintroductions.2001.a_ghouls:0 "Let's talk about the main ghouls and [revenant|E]s mechanics"
 podintroductions.2001.b:0 "...or other altered concepts" 
 podintroductions.2001.c:0 "The world and its lore" 
 podintroductions.2001.d:0 "I'm good, let's go!" 
 podintroductions.2001.e:0 "Wipe my supernatural traits and go to Character Generator" 
 podintroductions.2003.t:0 "Vampires 101"
 podintroductions.2003.t_ghouls:0 "Ghouls 101" 
 podintroductions.2003.desc:0 "The first thing to note is that, as a Vampire, you are immortal... sort of. You won't die of old age or disease, but being put to the torch or decapitated will still end your unlife. As such, succession is a lesser, but still present, concern for you. In the same vein, Marriages can't produce children, so they are mostly a political tool available to a select few religions. \nReligions are a core part of the gameplay, even more than in CK3. Here, it represents the core philosophical tenets of your character, which help him not fall to the Beast. Indeed, the Beast -a literal manifestation of your inner monstrosity- is one of your worst foes, and managing your stress is paramount to not fall prey to it, as it would mean your character has become a feral wight, resulting in his abdication.\nTake notice of your hunger, a core modifier representing your need for blood. Hunger is used for many schemes and powers, and replenish slowly or with active hunting."
 podintroductions.2003.desc_ghouls:0 "Firstly, it is recommended to only play ghouls and [revenant|E]s after you have a good grasp of vampire mechanics, as they both use similar ones, but with less possibilities and more difficulties for the 'servants of darkness'. This intro will only talk about specific changes from the mainline vampire mechanics.\nGhouls are immortals but [revenant|E]s aren't, their lifespan is greatly improved over mortal humans however. Both can have children, which are likely to become [revenant|E]s (more so if from a [revenant|E] couple).\nThey got access to special buildings which are quite powerful, but lack access to some of the more specific vampire ones.\nThey can use [disciplines|E] in the same lifestyle way as vampires. There is no [Embrace|E], [diablerie|E] schemes and the like available to them.\nKeep in mind that, while unnaturally healthy, you aren't immune to diseases like vampires are.\nFinally, remember that this is a substantially harder gameplay style, since you basically are a weaker vampire with few advantages, less mechanics and a lot of new drawbacks."
 podintroductions.2003.a:0 "Some more advanced concepts"  
 podintroductions.2004.t:0 "How to not end as a living torch"
 podintroductions.2004.desc:0 "Vampires are slow at learning new things. As such, you still have access to the base lifestyles, but at a lower rate of progression. You can instead choose to invest your time into the [disciplines|E], opening the powers of the damned for your use.\nBuildings represent your influence over the mortal populace. Most are capped by a stat like control and you will have to choose how to balance these. Note that major centers of populations, represented by high development duchy capitals are the biggest asset any Prince can dream of.\nWarfare is sensibly altered, with a bigger emphasis on knights. The prowess of your knights can easily overcome a much more numerous foe, especially if mostly composed of levies. As such, be very wary of high prowess hostile Vampires.\nIn a world full of deceit and tricks, intrigue plays a bigger role. There are new schemes to discover, some linked to your powers, and most of the characters have secrets better left untold... or used for blackmail if their religion allows it."
 podintroductions.2004.a:0 "Back to basics"  
 podintroductions.2005.t:0 "The Story so Far..."
 podintroductions.2005.desc:0 "The [world_of_darkness|E] is an universe running for more than 30 years now, with hundred of books and other medias covering it. The main idea is that, in our world, several factions of supernaturals creatures are interacting below the surface, creating an underworld full of intrigues and stories.\nThe Vampires of the WoD are mainly the result of the biblical curse against Caine, the first murderer, and most are tracing back their lineage to him in a system they call 'generations'. This dynasty tree of the undeath has branched into several factions, the clans, each with its strength, weakness and geographical power base.\nIn Dark Ages : Vampires, which you are playing now, we are following the undead world at the crossroad of several major crisis. The sack of Constantinople has happened, and broken the major [cainite|E] Empire of the time, having a ripple effect as far as France and Persia. Meanwhile, the Church Inquisition is gathering support and information, almost ready to usher the age of retribution on the cursed bloodsuckers..."
 podintroductions.2006.t:0 "The Story so Far..."
 podintroductions.2006.desc:0 "The [world_of_darkness|E] is an universe running for more than 30 years now, with hundred of books and other medias covering it. The main idea is that, in our world, several factions of supernaturals creatures are interacting below the surface, creating an underworld full of intrigues and stories.\nThe Vampires of the WoD are mainly the result of the biblical curse against Caine, the first murderer, and most are tracing back their lineage to him in a system they call 'generations'. This dynasty tree of the undeath has branched into several factions, the clans, each with its strength, weakness and geographical power base.\nIn the startdate that you are playing, both the Inquisition and the Anarch Revolt have come and gone for the most part, leaving the undead world shaken like never before. To address these new threats, the Camarilla has been formed by the majority of the [Clan|E]s, a sect aiming at hiding vampires from mortal eyes. The opposition to this has coalesced into the formation of the Sabbat, vampires revealing in their monstrous nature. Many [cainites|E] haven't picked a side though, and the future of these two fragile sects remain quite uncertain at this point."
 podintroductions.2102.t:0 "Welcome to Inquisitors of Darkness"
 podintroductions.2102.desc:0 "First thing, thank you for playing the mod! \n[princes_of_darkness|E] is an overhaul of the base game, aimed at bringing the [world_of_darkness|E] into life in Crusader Kings 3. As such, it has many gameplay concepts altered, and use the extensive lore of its world to propose a different experience all around."
 podintroductions.2102.a:0 "Let's talk about the main Inquisitors mechanics..." 
 podintroductions.2102.b:0 "...or the order's specialties" 
 podintroductions.2102.c:0 "Lore of the Inquisition" 
 podintroductions.2102.d:0 "I'm good, let's go!" 
 podintroductions.2103.t:0 "Lights on"
 podintroductions.2103.desc:0 "In 1230, the Inquisition is just getting started. You are outnumbered and outgunned by your foes, the vampires. They have powerful intrigue capabilities, and use knights that can easily wreck most of your armies, especially your levies.\nYou have some advantages though, one of them being your powerful building set and lifestyle tree. You also have an unique scheme, finding the monster lair, where you can go on some one to one action against the vampires. Obviously, they will defend themselves though..\nBe prepared for a tough game where you must bide your time and build your powerbase, all the while hunting your most threatening neighbors, until you are strong enough to reclaim the night."
 podintroductions.2103.a:0 "The Orders' toolkit"
 podintroductions.2103.c:0 "Lore of the Inquisition" 
 podintroductions.2104.c:0 "Lore of the Inquisition" 
 podintroductions.2104.t:0 "Rainbow of Light"
 podintroductions.2104.desc:0 "Each order has its own way of securing heirs. St. James, Acre and the Red Order can ordinate younger mortals with a [character_interaction|E], making them their squire or 'child' in gameplay terms. The Sisters of St. John can do the same, but only with younger females.\nHouse Von Murnau works like a vanilla family, but each von Murnau has a chance of becoming an Inquisitor during his or her life. Finally, the Oculi Dei can both ordinate new members or have a family, but their family will never be naturally an Inquisitor unless ordinated."
 podintroductions.2104.a:0 "Back to basics"  
 podintroductions.2105.t:0 "The Story so Far..."
 podintroductions.2105.desc:0 "The [world_of_darkness|E] is an universe running for more than 30 years now, with hundred of books and other medias covering it. The main idea is that, in our world, several factions of supernaturals creatures are interacting below the surface, creating an underworld full of intrigues and stories.\nYou are playing Dark Ages : Inquisitor, which tells the story of how a little group of driven mortals literally changed the world. They were the first to really see behind [masquerade|E] of the vampires and secured the Church's support to start a Shadow Inquisition.\nThe task before them is immense, and in 1230, they have barely scratched the surface of the world they have stumbled upon. With an undying faith in their heart, they are boldly making their first moves against the spawns of Hell...\nNone of these first Inquisitors could know it, but their courage and drive will usher an era of fire and pain for the vampires that will last for centuries."
 podintroductions.2202.t:0 "Welcome to the Undying of Darkness"
 podintroductions.2202.desc:0 "First thing, thank you for playing the mod! \n[princes_of_darkness|E] is an overhaul of the base game, aimed at bringing the [world_of_darkness|E] into life in Crusader Kings 3. As such, it has many gameplay concepts altered, and use the extensive lore of its world to propose a different experience all around.\nYou are playing the Mummies, which have a very different gameplay loop and concepts than the vampires or inquisitors. While the introduction will present the key core concepts, don't hesitate to go on the wiki if you want more in depth explanations about something."
 podintroductions.2202.a:0 "Let's talk about the main Mummy mechanics..." 
 podintroductions.2203.t:0 "The Mummy Returns"
 podintroductions.2203.desc:0 "Mummies, also called the Undying or Amenti, are immortals whose bodies have been ritualistically preserved and granted the power of self resurrection.\nCreated by Isis using the powerful Spell of Life, originally to follow and serve her son Horus, they were his companions during his eternal war against Set, the murderer of his father Osiris. They are the original Immortals of Egypt, the land of black sand and pyramids. Bound together by their shared culture, they continue to work towards Horus's twin goals: vengeance against Set and the defeat of the serpent Apophis.\nNot all Mummies are committed to this fight however. Some instead have chosen to go their separate way despite Horus' disapproval, those have became known as Ishmaelites.\nOne of those 'neutral' Mummies then taught the Spell of Life to Cabirus, a Greek Mage, who founded his own 'dynasty' still hunted to this day by Horus who isn't happy at all about the sacred Spell of Life being given to unbelievers.\nFinally, Set himself never acquired the true Spell of Life but he got close to it, enough so that he created his own twisted version of it. This resulted in the birth of the Bane Mummies, demented mockeries of the true Mummies of Egypt and dedicated to their dark god's bidding."
 podintroductions.2203.a:0 "Back to the beginning." 
 podintroductions.2202.b:0 "Lore of the Mummies" 
 podintroductions.2302.t:0 "Welcome to the Anacreon of Darkness"
 podintroductions.2302.desc:0 "First thing, thank you for playing the mod! \n[princes_of_darkness|E] is an overhaul of the base game, aimed at bringing the [world_of_darkness|E] into life in Crusader Kings 3. As such, it has many gameplay concepts altered, and use the extensive lore of its world to propose a different experience all around."
 podintroductions.2302.a:0 "Let's talk about the main Wraith mechanics..." 
 podintroductions.2402.t:0 "Welcome to Angels of Darkness"
 podintroductions.2402.desc:0 "First thing, thank you for playing the mod! \n[princes_of_darkness|E] is an overhaul of the base game, aimed at bringing the [world_of_darkness|E] into life in Crusader Kings 3. As such, it has many gameplay concepts altered, and use the extensive lore of its world to propose a different experience all around."
 podintroductions.2402.a:0 "Let's talk about the main Demon mechanics..." 
 podintroductions.2402.b:0 "Lore of the Demons" 
 podintroductions.2403.t:0 "The Fallen Angels"
 podintroductions.2403.desc:0 "Demon are fallen angels who chose to side with Lucifer and humanity rather than with God in the first days of Creation. As punishment for their rebellion and disloyalty, the Archangel Michael cast these angels out of Heaven and into the Abyss. They have been imprisoned since then, but a small number of them has been called forth by infernalists and are now back on Earth, greatly corrupted by the Torment endured in the eternal prison. Forsaking everything they once stood for, the Fallen Angels -now called Demons- now want to see everything burns just to spite the uncaring God that let them to suffer."
 podintroductions.2403.a:0 "Back to the beginning." 
 
 
 podintroductions.22.t:0 "Under the White Cross"
 podintroductions.22.desc:0 "This is where it all started for the Knights of Acre. 26 years go, Gauthier de Dampierre fought the monsters known as vampires as Constantinople burned around him. He felt the call of God to take up the sword against this true enemy.\nSince then, Gauthier has been instrumental in leading the martial efforts of the Shadow Inquisition from his fortress in Cyprus but time waits for no man. The old Grandmaster knows that he probably won't see his dream of reclaiming Constantinople for the Lord before his death.\nAs such, Gauthier is preparing his succession, and plans are being made for the next generation of Knights of Acre to lead Christendom to its ultimate victory against the bloodsuckers. For they are the Sword of God, and the last defenders of humanity against the horrors in the dark."
 podintroductions.22.a:0 "We will save humankind, or die trying" 
 podintroductions.23.t:0 "The Cathars' Shadow"
 podintroductions.23.desc:0 "The Holy Church first understood the threat of the vampires during the Albigensian Crusade against the Cathars. During that time, it was found that the poor souls of southern France were, most of the time, misled by these cursed creatures.\nIt is no surprise then that his Holiness took a special interest in France, apparently a high point of vampiric infestation. The Inquisition efforts are led by Aignen of Toulouse, a secretive man, once friend of famed Rodrigue de Navarre. Master of a growing network of spies, the Oculi Dei, Aignen is playing the long game, knowing full well that the situation in France is far worse than even Rome thinks. Any misstep could by his last one..."
 podintroductions.23.a:0 "Be zealous, but also patient and subtle" 
 podintroductions.24.t:0 "Sun versus Cross"
 podintroductions.24.desc:0 "England has always been a perplexing land to the Holy Church. Clinging for a long time to ancient practices, with rumors of witchcraft or worse springing from time to time, the island has never been truly tamed.\nMother Maria, leader of the Sisters of St-John, is but the last of a long list of inquisitors trying to understand the root of the corruption gnawing at this land. The visions of her sisters are talking about an entity known as 'Mithras' who proclaims himself a God as soon as the sun sets.\nWith this clear goal in sight, and their relentless zeal as their weapon, the sisters are preparing to lead the Inquisition in a fight that they are only starting to understand the proportion..."
 podintroductions.24.a:0 "There is only one God" 
 podintroductions.25.t:0 "Noble Zeal"
 podintroductions.25.desc:0 "The Von Murnau, a German noble house, has been cursed -or blessed- by God to be able to literally smell evil. This characteristic, paired with their stronghold in Bavaria, make them invaluable partners of the Shadow Inquisition.\nTheir participation is coordinated by one Leopold von Murnau, a sickly man of towering intellect and drive. He is actually the mind behind the foundation of the Inquisition, and its informal leader.\nWith his strong leadership, Bavaria has become a beacon of hope for Inquisitors everywhere, a promise of what Earth could be once purged of the foul vampires. Leopold is far from done though, and is already planning his next step, with a potential merge of the Inquisition orders into one new Society..."
 podintroductions.25.a:0 "A family stands against the darkness" 
 podintroductions.26.t:0 "First of his Kind"
 podintroductions.26.desc:0 "Despite what the Shadow Inquisition would let you think, Rodrigue de Navarre was actually the first man to make a stand against the darkness. This minor noble participated in the Albigensian Crusade, and found himself with the proof that 'something' was out there.\nThis revelation, and the numerous vampiric attempts to silence him since, took a toll on Rodrigue's sanity and the founder of the Knights of St. James now sees enemies everywhere, even among his fellow inquisitors. As such, he hasn't officially joined the Shadow Inquisition, but grudgingly accept their support in reconquering Iberia.\nThe Holy See is concerned that Rodrigue's stubbornness could be a serious issue, as vampires are well aware of his presence, and the Church is unable to make his full power felt in the peninsula."
 podintroductions.26.a:0 "A paranoid man alone against the dark" 
 podintroductions.27.t:0 "The Belly of the Beast"
 podintroductions.27.desc:0 "The Holy See would like to think that Italy is free from vampiric corruption. But the revelation that a cardinal, Fabrizio Ulfila, was actually a spawn of hell all along shook his Holiness to the core.\nNot wanting to spread panic among the flock, he has tasked the informal leader of the Red Order, Vittoria Santini di Parma, with assessing this threat way too close for comfort.\nWith the well stocked libraries of the Order at her disposal, Vittoria has already made some very alarming discoveries. The bloodsuckers are everywhere in Italy, and even parade in the Holy City itself when the night appears.\nPowerful forces are surrounding her small cell though, and her investigation could end before it even started if she is not careful..."
 podintroductions.27.a:0 "The very heart of Christianity is threatened" 
 podintroductions.101.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.101.desc:0 "The mighty have fallen low indeed, fair Helena, as here you are, the most beautiful woman of the world, reduced to struggle with your bitter rival on the shores of a remote island. Long ago, you were adored, and men fought bloody wars for a mere glance. Menele stole everything from you.\nThe stubborn King of Sparta could not accept that you took Rome's side during the Punic Wars, and has been hunting you ever since. He destroyed your beloved Pompei and a countless number of your adoring servants and childer. Now, you only have your precious Prias at your side... but you are tired of fleeing.\nIt is time for this millennia old feud to end, daughter of Mycenae. Destroy Menele and his foolish dreams of utopia!\nThen, and only then, will the future looks bright once again."
 podintroductions.101.a:0 "This ends now" 
 podintroductions.helena:0 "Once Menele is dead, you will have access to a special decision"
 podintroductions.102.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.102.desc:0 "Lord Absalon, father of Denmark, your departure to fight the accursed Baltic Tremere has left your land open to pretenders and adventurers. They must be dealt with, as you are the only ruler Denmark needs.\nAll the while crushing these fools, you might want to learn more about this strange ritual you discovered in Ruga during your journey. You still wonder what these cultists were trying to do, resurrect their God? Obviously a pitiful last ditch effort to stop you but...\nIf you could succeed, harnessing the power of this 'Svantevit' deity in yourself... you would be unstoppable!\nIt is time for you to reconquer Denmark and starts your ascension to Godhood, lord Absalon. It is, obviously, your true destiny."
 podintroductions.102.a:0 "First Denmark, then..." 
 podintroductions.absalon:0 "You can invest in a special decision to progressively decipher Svantevit's ritual"
 podintroductions.103.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.103.desc:0 "Powerful Mithras, your return to prominence in England has been a resounding success so far, with the invading Normans vampires finally dealt with. There are still some concerns to take care of however, with various outlaws and independent Princes challenging your rule.\nThe real issue is elsewhere though, as you can already feel the sleep of ages creeping in your soul. And you know your regents well enough to know that they will mess things up if you go to sleep again.\nRecently though, you have sensed in your blood that your old flame, Kemintiri of the Setites, has awakened again. Maybe you could send for her and rekindle your relationship? She was always a divisive figure in your court and your vassals will probably not appreciate her return... but who cares about their opinion anyway?"
 podintroductions.103.a:0 "Come back to me, beloved of Isis" 
 podintroductions.mithras:0 "You send for Kemintiri, which is costly and will probably anger your vassals"
 podintroductions.103.b:0 "Going back with your ex is never a good idea" 
 podintroductions.mithrasb:0 "You forget this whole story"
 podintroductions.104.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.104.desc:0 "Voivode Rustovitch, your rule is in danger. Despite your crushing victory against Jurgen and his Ventrue, you were forced to sign a white peace by the sudden backstab of the Blood Horde. This didn't sat well with your vassals.\n'Too young! Too Western! Unable to crush the Tremere!' they say. These fools, barely capable of holding their pitiful castles, know nothing of war and rulership. Still, you need them.\nYou must return to your tried and true tactic of 'Trial by War', fighting skirmishes with your own vassals to curb their ambitions. They will learn to respect you once again."
 podintroductions.104.a:0 "Let the Feast of Fiends begins" 
 podintroductions.vlad:0 "As Rustovitch, you have a special [character_interaction|E] available with your direct vassals"
 podintroductions.105.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.105.desc:0 "Lord Etrius, the exile of your rival Goratrix to France has secured your position as Tremere's favorite and leader of the House. Still, you have to deal with threats both inside and outside the [Clan|E]. The Tzimisce Voivodate to your east is an ever present concern, but you must also make sure that no other Magus tries to usurp your rightful place.\nAs the right hand of the founder himself, you have many tools at your disposal to make sure that doesn't happen. Be sure to use them wisely and bring glory to House Tremere!... and to you as well, of course."
 podintroductions.105.a:0 "The Pyramid is mine to command" 
 podintroductions.etrius:0 "As Etrius, you have a special [character_interaction|E] available with your direct Tremere vassals"
 podintroductions.106.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.106.desc:0 "Fearsome Matasuntha, you recently awoke to this strange new world, so removed from the glorious days of the Huns your loved so much. Still, there are some new steppe riders to help, and some new 'civilizations' to bring down!\nYou can't do it on your own though, and [Clan|E] Gangrel has forgotten you. As such, you must rely on your own progeny. Scendrak is already there but Zayyat has converted to a strange new religion, and is as such out of your reach... but Vorocius, perhaps the mightiest of the three, is a strong possibility.\nYou could call him back although this would cost you a great deal of energy considering the distances involved. Or you could just forget about him."
 podintroductions.106.a:0 "Let us ride together once again my childe!" 
 podintroductions.106.b:0 "I will do just fine on my own" 
 podintroductions.107.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.107.desc:0 "Fearless Tabitha, you have been sent to Iberia by the Eldest herself with a clear mission : stopping the Reconquista.\nIt is a great honor and a great responsibility, as the most respected members of your [Clan|E] think you able to repel the Christian Lasombra's tide.\nYou took Badajoz as your center of power, to be as close as you can to the frontline, but you are now forced to play a game you aren't as familiar with, the one of politics.\nAndalusia stands divided, and in division you will fall. As such, you have so far accepted Badr's callous leadership of the combined Muslim [cainites|E] efforts but you worry that her approach might lead to further disunity in the long run.\nYou are not one to disappoint your elders, but the task ahead of you is still frightening, and the real threats might be closer than you initially thought..."
 podintroductions.107.a:0 "I will be the shield of Andalusia" 
 podintroductions.tabitha:0 "As Tabitha, you have a special time sensitive decision"
 podintroductions.108.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.108.desc:0 "Lord Roque, Iberia is in turmoil. The Lasombra civil war threatens to engulf everyone in its wake, including you. You must be ready and prepare if you are to survive.\nYour cunning and diplomatic skills have secured the respect of your neighbors, even though you are one of the Low Clans. Obviously, they still despise you though, and won't hesitate to crush you if weakness is shown. Remember that they will only accept you as their peer if they have no other choice.\nYou are also known as a talented, if somewhat compulsive, schemer and this might be your greatest asset in the dire times to come. Leverage it well, and you may even stand as one of the most prominent leader of a new Iberia."
 podintroductions.108.a:0 "I must plan far ahead" 
 podintroductions.roque:0 "As Roque, your investigate scheme gives you a special bonus when completed"
 podintroductions.109.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.109.desc:0 "Lord Montano, the Sea of Shadows lies in shambles. The Iberian civil war, the 4th Crusade disaster and Camilla's awakening in Rome have reduced the vast empire you held in custody of your [Sire|E] to almost nothing.\nThis can not be allowed to continue or this would invite chaos into the [Clan|E] as, already, young pretenders start to spread rumors about your failed leadership.\nTo restore your authority, the course of action is simple. Secure Sicily and Italy, show [Clan|E] Lasombra that you are still a force to be reckoned with. Then, and only then, will you be respected once again."
 podintroductions.109.a:0 "There is much to be done" 
 podintroductions.montano:0 "As Montano, you have a special decision to restore your crumbling authority"
 podintroductions.110.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.110.desc:0 "Lady Natalya, Constantinople is burning and your dream of a new utopia with it. With your strong position in Greece, you might be the only hope for the City of the World's Desire... but the Latins are already well entrenched. You need a plan.\nAnother survivor, Anna Comnena, would be a perfect ally to encircle the City but you know Anna... she is ruthless and ambitious, and only cares for power.\nAnother solution would be to stay true to your ideals and call for help to any remaining Michaelites. The powerful Malachite, Michael's own champion, would be a tremendous help. But he would never accept an alliance with Anna, so it will be one or the other.\nPragmatism or idealism is the choice before you. What will it be, Autokrator?"
 podintroductions.110.a:0 "Pragmatism. I need Anna's armies" 
 podintroductions.110.b:0 "Idealism. Malachite will guide me." 
 podintroductions.natalya:0 "You will enter an alliance with Anna Comnena of Nikaea"
 podintroductions.111.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.111.desc:0 "Wise Durga Syn, Russia needs you more than ever. Your eternal foe, the fearsome Baba Yaga, lies in sleep for now, but her agents of the Shadow Curtain still oppress your homeland under their tyrannical worship of the accursed Hag.\nYou will need all the help you can gather in the daunting task ahead of you. Luckily, you are known as perhaps the greatest mentor of the [cainite|E] world, a fact you can leverage to your use.\nGather the best around you, revered teacher, and lead them to victory!"
 podintroductions.111.a:0 "The new generation will save us" 
 podintroductions.durgasyn:0 "As Durga Syn you have a special, always beneficial, option when educating a new progeny.\nYou can also lift Baba Yaga's Curse on you to recover your youth by achieving the West and East objective."
 podintroductions.112.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.112.desc:0 "Praise Set, and praise you Maatkare, his most beloved consort for the salvation you bring to the misguided '[cainite|E]' race. Your heart weeps when seeing so many children of your beloved not following his teachings. There is hope though, as the chaos of the Lasombra civil war in Iberia leaves many of them astray, and looking for guidance.\nAs one of the Hierophants, the rightful leaders of [Clan|E] Setite, you are happy to provide such guidance. You will only stop when all the world sings his praise. Then, and only then, will he returns triumphantly to your side..."
 podintroductions.112.a:0 "So many poor souls to free" 
 podintroductions.maatkare:0 "As Maatkare, you have a special [character_interaction|E] where you can try to convert any non zealous unbeliever. It is only available if you stay on the Via Set religion."
 podintroductions.113.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.113.desc:0 "Lady Qawiyya, you have just consolidated the Diet of Olives that already a new crisis is calling for your attention. The mighty city of Damascus has fallen to infernalist influence and threatens to engulf the whole region in its madness.\nManaal, a childe of the Prince, and Bistakh, an Haqimite envoy, are the last two sane vampires of this city and are now asking for your help in purging it. Both have swore to help you as much as they can if you pledge to their cause.\nSaving Damascus would send a powerful message to the world that [Clan|E] Salubri is still very much alive, but you also know that it would make you the prime target of Baali influence until the city is saved..."
 podintroductions.113.a:0 "We must march before it's too late" 
 podintroductions.113.b:0 "Sadly, the Diet is too weak for now" 
 podintroductions.qawiyya:0 "To get rid of the negative modifier, you will have to take Damascus and Palmyra within 70 years"
 podintroductions.114.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.114.desc:0 "Philip betrayed you. Cassander betrayed you. Even Alexander betrayed you by dying so soon when his destiny was so close at hand. You are all alone, Petaniqua.\nIn this though, you found strength and renewed purpose. As you shunned humanity once and for all, new allies came flocking to you, the Lupines known as the 'Black Spiral Dancers'. They worship a dark entity named the 'Wyrm'.\nPerhaps this is the key to your salvation Petaniqua. Walking this Black Spiral might save you... or condemn you even further.\nBut how much further down can you still go anyway?"
 podintroductions.114.a:0 "The truth is down below" 
 podintroductions.petaniqua:0 "As Petaniqua, you have a special decision to walk the Black Spiral. Be warned that it's far from a safe endeavor..."
 podintroductions.115.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.115.desc:0 "Lord Dionysius, the turmoil of the 4th Crusade is spreading to your beloved Athens. Refugees are coming to the city, feeling lost both physically and spiritually. As one of the main proponent of the Road of Humanity, it is your duty to shelter these poor souls.\nBut you could also look towards reestablishing order in this ruined Greece, to avoid such a traumatic event to ever happen again. As a beloved teacher and mentor, be sure to find and nurture the best prospects you can for the future. The [cainite|E] race will need them more than ever now."
 podintroductions.115.a:0 "From ashes, rebirth" 
 podintroductions.dionysius:0 "As Dionysius, you have a special, always beneficial, option when educating a new progeny"
 podintroductions.224.t:0 "Your Story So Far"
 podintroductions.224.desc.intro:0 "You were created as a servant of the Tremere warlock, [destroyed_tremere_master.GetFullName]. Through a peculiar set of circumstances, [destroyed_tremere_master.GetSheHe] was destroyed by the Tzimisce. Being the only surviving vampire in [destroyed_tremere_master.GetHerHis] domain, you have defacto inherited this realm and possessions. Yet you are surrounded by potential enemies and allies who would desire to bring you to heel. Shall you go it alone or take on a new yoke and swear fealty to a new liege?" 
 podintroductions.224.a:0 "Whom Thunder hath made greater? Here at least, We shall be free"
 podintroductions.224.a.tt:0 "Remaining independent, you consolidate your hold on [destroyed_tremere_master.GetFullName]'s estate including a substantial flock of razorbats."
 podintroductions.224.b:0 "Swear vassalage to the Razkoljna, for a price"
 podintroductions.224.b.tt:0 "Razkoljna sees things differently than the other fiends. While autocratic, she will keep to any oath sworn. Come around to her way of thinking, and a bargain can be reached. She accepts Ventrue, Gangrel and Zadruga in her realm. She may offer the best hope of being free of the Omen War between the Tzimisce and the Tremere."
 podintroductions.224.c:0 "Seek refuge in the Cathedral of Flesh"
 podintroductions.224.c.tt:0 "Yorak is undoubtedly the most powerful of the Tzimisce in the region, even though his mindset is alien. He can shower you in blood and help our unlock the power of your Tzimisce bloodline. He most surely will demand a blood oath."
 podintroductions.224.d:0 "Assist the ambitions of The Flayer"
 podintroductions.224.d.tt:0 "Weakest of the Voivodes nearby, Velya does not lack for ambition. He is also an accomplished Koldunic Sorcerer. Pragmatic, he will trade magic and his protection in exchange for a vassal's oath. Being the strong vassal of a weak lord, may be better than being the weakest lord." 
 podintroductions.224.e:0 "Return to the Masters"
 podintroductions.224.e.tt:0 "Claim innocence in the destruction of my master, and appeal directly to the Regent of Tremere, Etrius, for succor. While he will surely demand an oath and return to service, he may allow some limited autonomy as an 'experiment.'"
 podintroductions.224.f:0 "Mother! Mother will help us!"
 podintroductions.224.f.tt:0 "The Great Mother of all Gargoyles, Virstania, loves all the creations of her magick. Go to her and show your loyalty, assist her in her political machinations in Ungvar, and she will reward her 'free-spirited child' with a retinue of Gargoyle Scouts."
 podintroductions.rocklord:0 "As Rocklord, you may have a pivotal role in the fate of Gargoyles."
 end_intro_tooltip:0 "You won't get any additional information"
 POD_rocklord_razorbat_flock:0 "Rocklord's Razorbat Flock"
 POD_rocklord_retinue:0 "Rocklord's Retinue"
 podintroductions.2001.f:0 "I'm good for this part, but I want more details"
 continue_intro_tooltip:0 "You will get additional, more detailed, information on the mod's mechanics in the next days."
 podintroductions.3000.t:0 "Secrets of the Night" 
 podintroductions.3000.desc:0 "Which topic would you like to explore?" 
 podintroductions.3000.a:0 "[disciplines|E]" 
 podintroductions.3000.b:0 "[Embrace|E] and Childer" 
 podintroductions.3000.c:0 "The Masquerade" 
 podintroductions.3000.d:0 "The Hunger" 
 podintroductions.3000.e:0 "I'm good, let's go." 
 podintroductions.3001.a:0 "Let's go back." 
 podintroductions.3001.t:0 "[disciplines|E]" 
 podintroductions.3001.desc:0 "The [disciplines|E], which are vampiric powers, are represented by unique lifestyles in the mod. You can only spent points in a tree if you have the corresponding trait (ex : the Celerity tree is unlocked by the Celerity trait).\nYou gain lifestyle xp for these trees mostly by hunting mortals or herding them (herding means keeping a mortal close as a source of blood for a longer time), both are a [character_interaction|E] available with mortals in your location.\nSome mortals give more xp than others depending on their traits." 
 podintroductions.3002.t:0 "Embrace and Childer" 
 podintroductions.3002.desc:0 "As a vampire, you can't have children. The 'children' tab in your character sheet represents your childer, the mortals you have yourself turned into vampires. To do so, you can use a [character_interaction|E] on any mortal in your location.\nOnce the interaction and consecutive scheme are done, the mortal becomes a vampire, your childe. Take notice that you will have to educate them after, which can be costly or dangerous in different ways." 
 podintroductions.3003.t:0 "The Masquerade" 
 podintroductions.3003.desc:0 "[masquerade|E] represents how much you are exposed to mortal authorities such as the Church. In game, it is a character modifier ranging from 0 to 5. Exposure can rise by using vampiric powers, hunting mortals and various events. If it rises too high, Inquisitor cells (a faction) will rise against you. You could also be targeted individually by Inquisitors trying to hunt you down.\nTo decrease your exposure, most religions can use the 'Cover up Masquerade' interaction by right clicking on your character. Religions who don't care about [masquerade|E] don't have this luxury though." 
 podintroductions.3004.t:0 "The Hunger" 
 podintroductions.3004.desc:0 "The Hunger represents how much your character needs blood. It is represented by a character modifier ranging from 0 to 5. Hunger rises mostly by using vampiric power. If it rises too high for too long, you won't be able to use vampiric powers anymore and some nasty events might happen.\nTo decrease your hunger you must hunt mortals, a [character_interaction|E] on any mortal in your location." 
 podintroductions.4000.t:0 "Secrets of Faith" 
 podintroductions.4000.desc:0 "Which topic would you like to explore?" 
 podintroductions.4000.a:0 "True Faith" 
 podintroductions.4000.b:0 "Inquisitors' Powers" 
 podintroductions.4000.c:0 "Succession" 
 podintroductions.4000.d:0 "Find Lair" 
 podintroductions.4000.e:0 "I'm good, let's go." 
 podintroductions.4001.a:0 "Let's go back." 
 podintroductions.4001.t:0 "True Faith" 
 podintroductions.4001.desc:0 "One of the most important tool at the Hunter's disposal, True Faith (and his upgraded version Beatific) is a trait that unlocks a powerful lifestyle. Most starting Hunters have it at the start but making sure that your heirs have it as well is an important task.\nTo do so, you can use the True Faith power Intercession on any other character to have a chance to give them the trait. If that fails and you are playing a character without it and still want to have it, you can ask a friend with True Faith to help you acquire it. It is a costly and difficult process though.\nThe True Faith lifestyle xp is gained mostly by the Find Lair interaction/scheme which is discussed in its own chapter." 
 podintroductions.4002.t:0 "Inquisitors' Powers" 
 podintroductions.4002.desc:0 "Besides True Faith, discussed in its own chapter, the Inquisitors' lifestyles are dependent on which Inquisitor Order your character is a part of, which is represented by the dynasty of your character in game. You can't access the other orders' specific powers." 
 podintroductions.4003.t:0 "Succession" 
 podintroductions.4003.desc:0 "Each order has its own succession method. The Von Murnau family plays like vanilla CK3, with marriage and children. The other holy orders use a special [character_interaction|E] to ordinate characters that then become their 'children'.\nOrdination follows some rules, like the apprentice being younger than the master or, in the case of the Sisters of St-John, being a female.\nOrders besides the Von Murnau and the Oculi Dei are celibate and thus must use this mechanic to make sure to have suitable heirs." 
 podintroductions.4004.t:0 "Find Lair" 
 podintroductions.4004.desc:0 "A special scheme available to Hunters against vampire characters, Find Lair is a core part of the Hunter gameplay at it is a way to take out powerful vampires without a war, and is also the main way of gaining True Faith lifestyle xp.\nObviously, such a scheme is dangerous but the difficulty can be mitigated if you pick your target well. The main things to look for are stats, the higher advantage you have over the target in one category, the easier it will be.\nFind Lair is also a good preparation for a difficult war, as you can hunt down your future foe's best knights before the war even starts." 
 podintroductions.2001.h:0 "Back to the beginning"
 podintroductions.5100.t:0 "The Story So Far..."
 podintroductions.5100.desc:0 "The [world_of_darkness|E] is an universe running for more than 30 years now, with hundred of books and other medias covering it. The main idea is that, in our world, several factions of supernaturals creatures are interacting below the surface, creating an underworld full of intrigues and stories.\nThe Vampires of the WoD are mainly the result of the biblical curse against Caine, the first murderer, and most are tracing back their lineage to him in a system they call 'generations'. This dynasty tree of the undeath has branched into several factions, the clans, each with its strength, weakness and geographical power base.\nYou are playing a Wan Kuei, a 'Kindred of the East' which are ancient guardians corrupted and cursed by the August Personage of Jade for their crimes. Although they aren't technically vampires, they often interact, mostly by territorial wars, with the Western vampires especially in India. The subcontinent has been the main war theater between Wan Kuei coming from Eastern Asia and the native vampires of India for millennia. The Wan Kuei themselves are hardly a united front, divided between various 'dharmas', their main beliefs, and 'courts", their main political organizations."

 podintroductions.5000.t:0 "Secrets of the Wan Kuei" 
 podintroductions.5000.desc:0 "Which topic would you like to explore?" 
 podintroductions.5000.a:0 "Dharmas" 
 podintroductions.5000.b:0 "Chi" 
 podintroductions.5000.c:0 "Succession" 
 podintroductions.5000.d:0 "Balance" 
 podintroductions.5000.e:0 "I'm good, let's go." 
 podintroductions.5001.a:0 "Let's go back." 
 podintroductions.5001.t:0 "Dharmas" 
 podintroductions.5001.desc:0 "Your Dharma level represents your achievements on your path, it can be raised via a decision and decrease in some Frenzy situations. When reduced to 0, you become chih-mei and unable to rule again (abdication).\nWhen you achieve 5+ level of dharma, you can absorb Chi (the Kuei-Jin resource replacing blood) by breath instead of drinking blood (which decrease the target's prisoner health level, in turn risking [torpor|E] or death when they reach a critical state), and devour Chi from the ambient area when you reach 6+ (No target needed).\nReaching high dharma also allows you to have extra chi virtue level. From dharma level 5 onward, you gain two extra level by dharma level." 
 podintroductions.5002.t:0 "Chi" 
 podintroductions.5002.desc:0 "You have two aspects of Chi, Yin and Yang, divided as Chi points of your Chi pool and a pool limit called chi virtue.\nYou get a temporary imbalance penalty when you spend all Chi of one aspect or have more Chi than the same aspect virtue. The permanent imbalance trait allows to ingest more Chi of that type without ill effects.\nWhen the total chi is five or fewer Chi points (of either sort), you will receive a hunger penalty, less than two will makes you ravenous, while 0 will make you lose control to acquire Chi. (The permanent yang imbalance trait makes you hungry faster, so instead of hunger you receive ravenous, and instead of ravenous you will lose control).\nSpending more Chi than you have may give you a health penalty, which will finally make your enter 'little death' (which results in abdication)."
 podintroductions.5003.t:0 "Succession" 
 podintroductions.5003.desc:0 "Wan Kuei can't [Embrace|E] like vampires do but permanent Yang imbalance allows them to have Dhampyr with mortal, or they can capture chih-mei and educate them as disciples, chih-mei are dead souls returned from Yomi recently or a [GetTrait('shih').GetName( GetPlayer )] who lost all Humanity (represented as a stress event), the capture is represented in game via decision, and education via an event chain." 
 podintroductions.5004.t:0 "Balance" 
 podintroductions.5004.desc:0 "When Yin and Yang virtue difference is more than 3 you get a permanent imbalance trait, this may not be bad as permanent imbalance gives some special mechanics explained in the other topics.\nBut becoming permanently imbalanced for a long time (5 years and more) can have consequences; Yin permanent imbalance will make you the possible target of [GetTrait('shih').GetName( GetPlayer )] (Eastern hunters of monsters). You will also become more corpselike and inhuman at time and finally Chi'gh Shih at last; Yang permanent imbalance will give you deadly and exceedingly contagious vampiric diseases." 

 podintroductions.2210.t:0 "Secrets of the Reborn" 
 podintroductions.2210.desc:0 "Which topic would you like to explore?" 
 podintroductions.2210.a:0 "Resurrection" 
 podintroductions.2210.b:0 "Hekau and Sekhem" 
 podintroductions.2210.b_wutian:0 "Tan and Chi" 
 podintroductions.2210.c:0 "Neteru" 
 podintroductions.2210.e:0 "I'm good, let's go." 
 podintroductions.2211.a:0 "Let's go back." 
 podintroductions.2211.t:0 "Resurrection" 
 podintroductions.2211.desc:0 "You are immortal, even more, you can resurrect when you get killed!\n\nThis has a cost of 3000 piety, and every sin trait will add to that.\n\nYou may end in oblivion when you can't pay the cost, or decide to suicide by your own will or by stress, or if your soul gets devoured!" 
 podintroductions.2212.t:0 "Hekau and Sekhem" 
 podintroductions.2212.desc:0 "As a Mummy you have access to the art of Hekau (Word of Power), represented as lifestyles.\n\nYou use Sekhem to fuel your Hekau techniques, and each type of Mummy recovers it differently: [GetTrait('shemsuheru').GetName( GetPlayer )] by time (1 point/1 months if you are in the [GetGeographicalRegion('pod_lands_of_faith').GetName], otherwise it will be a 25% chance of gaining them depending of the level of the Ma'at's Haven building). [GetTrait('cabiri').GetName( GetPlayer )] restore it by activating the 'Pneuma Restoration' personal [character_interaction|E]. [GetTrait('banemummy').GetName( GetPlayer )] regain it by executing [prisoners|E] using $EXECUTION_DEVOUR$ option.\n\nSpending more Sekhem than you have may give you a health penalty, which will make you end in [shadow_realm|E] when you reach beyond -9."
 podintroductions.2212.t_wutian:0 "Tan and Chi" 
 podintroductions.2212.desc_wutian:0 "As Wutian you can't acquire nomenclature like the Mummies of Egypt, but you can access the Tan lifestyle.\n\nYou don't use Sekhem, instead you have two aspects of Chi, Yin and Yang, divided as Chi points of your Chi pool with a total of 10, recovering with the passage of time.\n\nSpending more Chi than you have may gives you a health penalty, which will make you end in [shadow_realm|E] when you reach beyond -9."
 podintroductions.2213.t:0 "Neteru" 
 podintroductions.2213.desc:0 "You are unique, you can't create more mummies to assist you (unless you are playing Horus or Cabirus).\n\nInstead you can use [neteru|E] (mortal cultists) to hold your titles or buildings.\n\nAny mortal child will become your [neteru|E] at birth, but you can also use a [interaction|E] costing prestige to convert a courtier into a [neteru|E].\n\nJust one thing, they can't succeed you, the game will end when you can't resurrect anymore." 

 podintroductions.2410.t:0 "Secrets of the Damned" 
 podintroductions.2410.desc:0 "Which topic would you like to explore?" 
 podintroductions.2410.a:0 "Vessel" 
 podintroductions.2410.b:0 "Arcana and Resolve" 
 podintroductions.2410.c:0 "Thrall"
 podintroductions.2410.e:0 "I'm good, let's go." 
 podintroductions.2411.a:0 "Let's go back." 
 podintroductions.2411.t:0 "Vessel" 
 podintroductions.2411.desc:0 "In order to remain in Creation, a demon must inhabit a physical vessel of some kind. [GetTrait('truefallen').GetName( GetPlayer )] possesses an human vessel, but they can't support them for long. You will receive an event when your current vessel dies asking you if you want to change vessels to a random [thrall|E] or be in a spiritual state for a while so you can choose a new vessel by a [character_interaction|E]. [GetTrait('earthbound').GetName( GetPlayer )] possesses either an [artifact|E] or a [title|E], so make sure to not lose them, otherwise you will return to a mostly impotent spiritual state.\n\nIf you stay in spiritual state for too long, you will be trapped in the abyss, unable to do most [character_interaction|E], and need [piety_i] #N 10000#! to escape and possess another vessel." 
 podintroductions.2412.t:0 "Arcana and Resolve" 
 podintroductions.2412.desc:0 "Either demon or [thrall|E] have access to Arcana, represented as lifestyles, though some perks are demon only. Demons can gain yearly arcana lifestyle xp by the number of [thrall|E]s they have.\n\nYou use Resolve to fuel your Arcana powers, you can gain it by: Revelation [character_interaction|E], Sin Eating [character_interaction|E] (Unlocked by [GetPerk( 'arcana_sin_eating_perk' ).GetName( GetPlayer )]) or $EXECUTION_DEVOUR_SOUL$ Execution."
 podintroductions.2413.t:0 "Thrall" 
 podintroductions.2413.desc:0 "[thrall|E] are the servants of demons. After tempting and corrupting a character into your faith, you can make them your [thrall|E]. This will make them fall into infernalism. Demon and infernalist are the only kind of vassals you can have, other wise they will revolt. As their master, you can offer arcana perk point to command them, requesting gold, artifact, title or starting a war against neighboring rulers." 

 podintroductions.6002.t:0 "Background" 
 podintroductions.6002.desc:0 "Do you want to choose a vampire on the map to have a known [Sire|E] as part of your character background, or do you prefer to start without a clear lineage?." 
 podintroductions.6002.a:0 "I want to choose who I am related to."
 podintroductions.6002.c:0 "I will let it unknown."

 podintroductions.6003.t:0 "Background and Foreground" 
 podintroductions.6003.desc:0 "Do you want to choose a Wan Kuei on the map to have a starting Sifu as part of your character background or prefer join one later on during the gameplay?" 
 podintroductions.6003.a:0 "I want to choose my starting Sifu."
 podintroductions.6003.b:0 "I will join a Wu later in the game."
 podintroductions.6003.c:0 "I want start as an Heimin."

 podintroductions.6004.t:0 "Background and Foreground" 
 podintroductions.6004.desc:0 "Do you want to choose a [ghoul|E]/[revenant|E] on the map to have as parents as part of your character background? Do you want to be part of an organization now, later during the game or never?" 
 podintroductions.6004.a:0 "I want to choose my parents."
 podintroductions.6004.b:0 "I want to change the organization I'm part of."
 podintroductions.6004.b.t:0 "You can join the Forsaken, a faction of independent ghouls, mostly focused on hunting vampires. Or become the childe of a vampire." 
 podintroductions.6004.c:0 "I don't need those."

 podintroductions.6005.t:0 "Background and Foreground" 
 podintroductions.6005.desc:0 "Do you want to choose an Hunter on the map to have parent as part of your character background? Do you want to be part of an organization now, later during the game or never?" 
 podintroductions.6005.a:0 "I want to choose my parents."
 podintroductions.6005.b:0 "I want to change the organization I'm part of."
 podintroductions.6005.b.t:0 "You can join the inquisition, become [GetTrait('shih').GetName( GetPlayer )] if you are in the Eastern part of the map, or even fall into darkness."
 podintroductions.6005.c:0 "I don't need those"

 podintroductions.6006.t:0 "Background" 
 podintroductions.6006.desc:0 "Do you want to choose a werewolf on the map to be your as part of your character background?" 
 podintroductions.6006.a:0 "I want to choose choose my parents."
 podintroductions.6006.c:0 "I don't need those."

 podintroductions.6010.t:0 "Your Real Age" 
 podintroductions.6010.desc:0 "You can set you real age here, this will not change your immortal appearance.\nPS: It's recommended to age yourself up for a vampire character; since due to CK3 engine's limitations, if a character is older than you, making them your childe might not work correctly." 
 podintroductions.6010.a:0 "Reset to 16"
 podintroductions.6010.b:0 "Add 100 years"
 podintroductions.6010.c:0 "Add 10 years"
 podintroductions.6010.d:0 "Add 1 year"
 podintroductions.6010.e:0 "Keep current age"
